Add egw host ip docs (#2602)
tigera/docs: calico-cloud/networking/egress/egress-gateway-host-ip.mdx

---
description: Configure egress gateways to use the host node IP as the source address for traffic leaving the cluster.
---

# Configure egress gateways with Host IP support

## Big picture

Configure specific application traffic to exit the cluster through an egress gateway, using the

> gateway's **host (node) IP** as the source address for traffic leaving the cluster.

Reviewer: using host and node seems redundant. Maybe we should just use `host address`

## Value

When traffic from particular applications leaves the cluster to access an external destination, it
can be useful to control the source IP of that traffic. For example, there may be an additional
firewall around the cluster, whose purpose includes policing external accesses from the cluster, and
specifically that particular external destinations can only be accessed from authorized workloads
within the cluster.

In this mode, outbound traffic passing through an egress gateway is source-NATed (SNAT) to the

> **node IP of the host** where the egress gateway pod is running, rather than the gateway's own pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**host address** where the egress gateway pod is running, rather than the gateway's own pod
```

IP. This is useful when external firewalls or services need to allowlist traffic based on a

> stable set of known node IPs, or when pod IPs are not routable outside the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stable set of known host addresses, or when pod IPs are not routable outside the cluster.
```

  probes).
- Remote pods to check if the egress gateway is "ready". Only "ready" egress
  gateways will be used for remote client traffic. This traffic is automatically allowed by $[prodname] and
  no policy is required to allow it. $[prodname] only sends probes to egress gateway pods that have a named
  "health" port. This ensures that during an upgrade, health probes are only sent to upgraded egress gateways.

### Deploy on a RKE2 CIS-hardened cluster

If you are deploying `egress-gateway` on a RKE2 CIS-hardened cluster, its `PodSecurityPolicies` restrict the `securityContext` and `volumes` required by egress gateway. When deploying using the egress gateway custom resource, the Tigera Operator sets up `PodSecurityPolicy`, `Role`, `RoleBinding` and associated `ServiceAccount`.

### Configure iptables backend for egress gateways

The Tigera Operator configures egress gateways to use the same iptables backend as `calico-node`.
To modify the iptables backend for egress gateways, you must change the `iptablesBackend` field in the [Felix configuration](../../reference/resources/felixconfig.mdx).

> ### Configure IP autodetection for dual-ToR clusters.

Reviewer: We should no include dual ToR or basically any other details related to BGP or on-prem in this page. (same in the other file)
